Hi, everyone in this natural world and implement the functionality of a responsive sidebar navigation
menu.
All right.
So so so far, all these styles and all the all the exterior elements are done.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to actually go ahead and grab three things in JavaScript.
The reason for that is those three things.
One of them is going to be our hamburger menu.
The next one is going to be our header.
And then we are going to have our overlay, because as you guys can see, that unless this button is
correct, we are not going to see our overlay, the cross and the main header.
So.
First things first, I'm going to grab the toggle button, this is the hamburger menu, I could call
it the hamburger button or hamburger button.
I could just go ahead and call it hamburger.
It makes more sense that way.
And we are going to say, query, select.
All right.
So what is the class for this?
It is the toggle.
I guess I grab the class from this, from Sears, from FEMA.
So let's go ahead and let's make this smaller a bit and let's make this bigger.
We grab the hamburger because we want to click it.
Then we are going to grab the main header.
The reason for that is we are we want to make sure that it expands.
The width is increased.
That's why we are going to grab it.
We going to say document, document, query, selector.
I'm sure by now the concept of JavaScript variables and selecting something in JavaScript and applying
different lessiter or dumb manipulation has become second nature to guys.
We have done it a lot and we are going to continue doing it a ton more.
And finally, we are going to grab our overlay.
And we are going to say document.
Dot query selector, and we are going to grab it by its claws, which is overlayed.
All right, so we only have one event listener here, and that is going to be applied on the hamburger
button.
So whenever we click on this hamburger button, three things happen.
One, this becomes a cross.
The second, the header is going to appear from the left or it's going to expand to be more accurate.
And third, our overlay is going to appear.
So three things should should happen.
So we are going to send out a listener.
We are listening for a click, and when the click happens, we run a function.
All right, so the first thing is that our hamburger button should have a class of we are going to add
a class of open.
But there is actually another method with even listeners that we have, and that is the toggle button.
So we could go this way, we could grab the hamburger button and add the class of open and then check
if it has the class of open, then we would remove the class of open.
But we do have another method and that is toggle.
So if we provided with the toggle method, what it does is it is going to do this checking all on its
own, because this is a smart method.
It is going to take a look at the hamburger button.
If the hamburger button has a class of open, it is going to remove it.
And if the hamburger button doesn't have a class of open, it is going to add that class of open.
So it is going to judge that decision.
It is going to take that decision on its own.
And we do not have to provide it with an IF statement.
So this is how we are going to implement it for the hamburger and also for the main header and the overlay
overlay.
This is our overlay and this is going to be our main header.
So main header, let's save everything.
Let's come here.
And this is our finished product.
So if I click on it, we are going to see all the lines up front and they form a cross.
We see all our navigation, which are very well clickable and it doesn't matter where you click, you
have to click this cross to be able to get rid of everything.
So this is toggle.
This is toggle is off.
On, off.
Think of it like 011.
OK, so this is it, this is it for our project.
I know this one all most of these projects so far, they have been very, very small projects.
But because these projects, they are beginner to intermediate level.
Whenever we get to our advanced projects, we are going to cover even more interesting.
But first things first.
We should cover these projects first to see you guys in the next one.